---
layout: post
title:  "A Scalable Language"
date:   2018-02-22 21:45:45 -0500
categories: books scala chapter
---

Recently, I undertook a technically challenging project at work and it is all written in Scala. I’ve been meaning to get learn Scala and get familiar with functional programming but never really had the right motivation. 

These series of blog posts will aim to change that.

### What does Scala offer?

Known as a 'scala-ble language', Scala is meant to grow with the needs of the developer.
In short, Scala is a blend of OO and functional programming concepts in a statically typed language.

#### A. Scala is pure OO

OO gives complex ideas structure and a nice layer of abstraction. Scala is OO in its purest form, whereby every value is an object and every operation is a method call. Thus, even something as trivial as adding two numbers
together is purely OO. Java on the other hand, pollutes its OO structure with primitive types and their associated operations.

```java
1 + 2 // in-fix notation

1.+(2) // in pure form
```

#### B. Scala is also a complete functional language
Scala is also a full-blown functional language. This means two things:
A. Functions are values of the same status as say Integers or Strings, and so you can store a function in a variable, return functions from methods, pass functions in as arguments
B. Immutability by default

#### C. Scala is concise
You can omit much of the verbose syntax of Java in Scala. This improves the readability of code.

```java
// Java
class Person {
  private String name;
  private String number;

  public Person(String name, String number){
    this.name = name;
    this.number = number;
  }

  // etters
  // getters
  // hashcode
  // equals
}

// Scala
class Person(var name: String, var number: String){}
```

#### D. Compatibility with Java - Scala compiles to JVM bytecode

#### E. Scala is a high-level Functional Programming language

#### F. Scala is statically-typed

This may seem trivial but gives us huge benefits: Verifiable properties, Safe refactoring and inline documentation. Remember, the best comments are the ones that are never written.